https://www.wsj.com/tech/landmark-verdict-says-meta-harmed-children-allowing-adults-to-prey-on-them-cb3ad674?st=jiBQ8q&reflink=desktopwebshare_permalink

Landmark Verdict Says Meta Harmed Children, Allowing Adults to Prey on Them
With $375 million penalty, a New Mexico state court case holds social-media company responsible for content on its platforms
By 
Erin Mulvaney
Follow
 and 
Meghan Bobrowsky
Follow
Updated March 24, 2026 6:27 pm ET





Vehicles driving past the Meta Platforms headquarters sign with the company's infinity logo and "1 Hacker Way" visible.
John G Mabanglo/EPA/Shutterstock
A New Mexico jury on Tuesday found that Meta Platforms META 1.24%increase; green up pointing triangle, which runs Facebook and Instagram, was liable for failing to protect young people from online dangers, including sexually explicit content, solicitation and human trafficking.

The jury found Meta liable for misleading consumers about the safety of its platforms and endangering children, under the state’s consumer protection laws. The jury ordered a maximum penalty for each violation, totaling $375 million in civil penalties. Meta made 160 times that amount of revenue in its most recent quarter.

Advertisement


The case was among the first to test questions about whether social-media companies should be held responsible for the content posted on their platforms. New Mexico Attorney General Raúl Torrez said this is the first time a state has prevailed at trial against a major tech company for harming young people.

“The jury’s verdict is a historic victory for every child and family who has paid the price for Meta’s choice to put profits over kids’ safety,” Torrez said. “Today the jury joined families, educators, and child safety experts in saying enough is enough.”

The case was one of dozens of similar lawsuits filed by state attorneys general against Meta and other platforms. Separately, a jury is deliberating in a similar case in a Los Angeles court, in which a young woman alleges that social-media companies, including Meta, designed intentionally addictive products that led to her mental health issues.

That case is one of thousands of similar individual lawsuits consolidated in a California court. Additionally, more than 2,000 lawsuits are pending in federal court by individuals and school districts.

Advertisement


In 2023, Torrez sued Meta alleging that the social media giant’s platform failed to protect children from sexual abuse, online solicitation, and human trafficking. The lawsuit was the result of an undercover investigation into Meta’s platforms that created decoy profiles posing as children aged 14 years and younger.

The lawsuit said Meta was proactively serving and directing underage users toward sexually explicit images, allowed adults to contact children for pornographic images, and let users find, share and sell enormous volumes of illegal child porn.

Meta disagrees with the verdict and plans to appeal, a company spokesman said Tuesday. 

“We work hard to keep people safe on our platforms and are clear about the challenges of identifying and removing bad actors or harmful content,” Meta spokesman Andy Stone said. “We will continue to defend ourselves vigorously, and we remain confident in our record of protecting teens online.”

Advertisement


During the weekslong trial, New Mexico prosecutors presented internal Meta documents and testimony that it said showed the company ignored warnings about the dangers of its platforms. They alleged design features let pedophiles engage with children, and that the sites were designed to intentionally addict children to using them.

Meta denied the allegations and says that it has been investing money for years to make its platforms safer at the expense of audience growth. 

In May, the New Mexico trial court judge will hear additional arguments from state prosecutors, who will ask for Meta to pay additional damages. They will also ask for Meta to change its platform, including enacting effective age verification, removing predators from its sites, and protecting minors from encrypted communications that can shield bad actors.

In the case underway in Los Angeles, a jury has been deliberating for eight days over social media harm allegations against Meta and YouTube after several weeks of testimony and arguments. On Monday, that jury indicated to the judge that they were having trouble reaching consensus with their verdict.

During that trial, jurors heard from Meta executives Mark Zuckerberg and Adam Mosseri and the plaintiff, a 20-year-old woman named Kaley G.M., who testified that social media use had contributed to mental health issues including anxiety, depression and body dysmorphia.

Kaley’s case was the first of more than 3,000 lawsuits filed against Meta, YouTube, TikTok and Snapchat in California. TikTok and Snapchat settled with Kaley before the trial began in February.